#2021-10-28 notes
##Subnetting and Layer 3: routing

###Symbols
 - Router: Circle with an X in it. âŠ—
 - Switch: Box/rectangle with two horizontal lines

###Subnetting
IP addresses are composed of four binary octets, which are represented as
numbers in base 10. Such as 128.46.83.163

A subnet can be indicated by the trailing slash, which indicates how many bits
are used for the subnet mask. The remaining bits indicate the address range. A
/24 address uses 24 out of 32 bits, which means that 8 bits remain to be used
for addresses in the network, for a total of 128. This also defines the size
of a block of addresses if many subnets are defined with their respective
starting and ending positions.

The first address in a block of addresses is the network address, the last
address available in that block is the broadcast address. Addresses index from
0, so the first block of addresses in a /24 subnet should be 0-127

The trailing /number also determines in which octet the subnet mask
terminates. 

 1. /1../8
 2. /9../16
 3. /17../24
 4. /25../32


###Routing
Virtual LANs cannot talk across to each other unless they are specifically
routed to do so. Both physical LANs and VLANs need to be connected with a
router to communicate traffic between them.

Three kinds of traffic:
 1. Unicast, which targets one IP address
 2. Multicast, which targets arbitrarily many IP addresses
 3. Broacast, which targets *and* needs response from all IP addresses

Routers block broadcast traffic. Any device on a network can create broadcast
traffic. Broadcast is a problem for traffic congestion because every device
that hears it must respond. Routers also do not allow multicast traffic
through without specific configuration: IP multicast helpers.

Routers also have rudimentary firewall capability, by way of access lists. A
whitelist specifically allows traffic, with everything else being blocked. A
blacklist specifically forbids traffic, with everything else being allowed.
Blacklist or whitelist can be defined (but may not be limited in
implementation) for tcp/udp ports, or for IP addresses.

Routing protocols include:
 - Eigrp (mix of link-state and distance vector, previously cisco proprietary)
 - OSPF
 - RiPv2 (distance vector)
 - IS-IS
 - BGP

Distance vector routing protocols are not as smart as link-state routing.
Distance vector assesses the cost of each route and chooses the lowest-cost
route.
