##Q&A Assignment 01

Q: Format?
A: no preference, as long as it's readable

Q: Color coding on diagram
A:
 - Fiber: orange
 - Ethernet: blue
 - Grounding and bonding: green

Q: How many drops
A: 6 drops
 - 4: workstation
   + 1: Emergency
 - 1: for WAP
 - 1: for clock

##Lecture

CCNA vs CCNP:
CCNA is cisco targeted general network understanding. CCNP dives much deeper
into every topic, including security

Switches vs hubs
 - Hubs are deprecated technology, frequently experienced collisions, was not
   ideal.
 - Switches are current basic connection technology. Contains many distinct
   physical access ports which are partitioned logically, so no collisions
occur, and a pair of uplink ports.

Managed switches can implement VLAN (virtual local area network), to isolate
client devices. A console port, which used to be a special serial connection,
can be used to configure the switch when connected to a PC.

Port security: establishes specific MAC address allowance on physical
ports.

VLANs can logically isolate client machines into separate networks. The limit
of the number of VLANs depends on the hardware. The practical limit that
should be about maximum in use is 24. Default Management VLAN on all Cisco
devices is VLAN 1.

Routers live on level 3 of the OSI model. They broadcast traffic and allow
different networks and subnets to talk to each other securely. Routers also
segregate multicast and broadcast traffic to prevent overloading across
networks.

Different kinds of traffic
 1. Unicast 1:1
 2. Multicast 1:m
   - Shares/replicates the same packets for multiple clients, which
     effectively shares bandwidth
 3. Broadcast 1:ALL
   - Replicates packets to all clients, which generates a lot of unique
     bandwidth
   - Useful for DHCP (Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol), which needs to be
     allowed specifically.

"Router On A Stick": A router which has only a single physical or logical
connection. 

Default Gateway: another term for router. Setting the default gateway on
router ports configures the pathing to find other networks.

Subnet masks: composed of 4 octets of bits for a 32 bit number, in the form
255.255.0.0, etc. The number of bits turned on can be noted with a /24, or
similar, suffix. 192.168.1.0/24 defines a subnet with a mask of 255.255.255.0,
since 24 bits turned on results in that. The bits which are turned off
signify the available quantity of addresses in that subnet. This can be found
by raising two to that power, so 2^8 provides 255 addresses.

Howard's IP scheme: in a /16 network, which has the 3rd and 4th octet
available for assignment, he assigns the 3rd octet to the type of device.

##Cisco Packet Tracer

In Network Devices, the only network equipment we're simulation are routers
and switches. Model 2960 switches, and model 2901 routers. For End Devices,
we're only ever going to use PC, Laptop, or Server units in this class

For configuration in the exercises, it's best to work from the end devices up
to the routers. The lab text will provide information about which IPs to use.

On any interface configured in an IOS device, particularly switches, the
default configuration is 'shutdown'. To avert this, issue the command on the
interface 'no shutdown' or 'no shut'.

Several modes for the CLI in a Cisco IOS device
 1. User mode '>' prompt
 2. Privileged exec mode '#' prompt
 3. Global Config mode '(config)#' prompt
 4. Interfacte Config mode '(config-if)#' prompt
