#2021-10-28 notes
##Subnetting Review and Layer 3: routing

###Symbols
 - Router: Circle with an X in it. âŠ—
 - Switch: Box/rectangle with two horizontal lines

###Subnetting
IP addresses are composed of four binary octets, which are represented as
numbers in base 10. Such as 128.46.83.163

A subnet can be indicated by the trailing slash, which indicates how many bits
are used for the subnet mask. The remaining bits indicate the address range. A
/24 address uses 24 out of 32 bits, which means that 8 bits remain to be used
for addresses in the network, for a total of 128. This also defines the size
of a block of addresses if many subnets are defined with their respective
starting and ending positions.

The first address in a block of addresses is the network address, the last
address available in that block is the broadcast address. Addresses index from
0, so the first block of addresses in a /24 subnet should be 0-127

The trailing /number also determines in which octet the subnet mask
terminates. 

 1. /1../8
 2. /9../16
 3. /17../24
 4. /25../32


###Routing
Virtual LANs cannot talk across to each other unless they are specifically
routed to do so. Both physical LANs and VLANs need to be connected with a
router to communicate traffic between them.

Three kinds of traffic:
 1. Unicast, which targets one IP address
 2. Multicast, which targets arbitrarily many IP addresses
 3. Broacast, which targets *and* needs response from all IP addresses

Routers block broadcast traffic. Any device on a network can create broadcast
traffic. Broadcast is a problem for traffic congestion because every device
that hears it must respond. Routers also do not allow multicast traffic
through without specific configuration: IP multicast helpers.

Routers also have rudimentary firewall capability, by way of access lists. A
whitelist specifically allows traffic, with everything else being blocked. A
blacklist specifically forbids traffic, with everything else being allowed.
Blacklist or whitelist can be defined (but may not be limited in
implementation) for tcp/udp ports, or for IP addresses.

Access Control Lists (ACLs) should be applied on the interface and in the
direction of potentially bad actors. More generally, ACLs should be applied
closest to the traffic to which they apply. Filtering outbound activity makes
very little sense, but filtering incoming activity on the internet interface
makes significantly more sense. Cisco ACLs have an implicit ``deny any`` at
the end of their config, which is not printed, and Cisco best practice
requests that this be made explicit by terminating an ACL with the appropriate
deny or permit command.

Routing protocols include:
 - Eigrp (mix of link-state and distance vector, previously cisco proprietary)
 - OSPF
 - RiPv2 (distance vector)
 - IS-IS
 - BGP

Distance vector routing protocols are not as smart as link-state routing.
Distance vector assesses the cost of each route and chooses the lowest-cost
route.

Etherchannel is a configuration applied to fiber-capable switches which
virtually bond fiber cables together as far as the software of the switch is
concerned. This turns redundant channels, like 4x10GB fiber connections, into
a single 1x40GB connection, which prevents spanning tree protocol from turning
off connections that would otherwise loop.

##OSI Layers 4 & 7
OSI layer 5 & 6 effectively do not exist. They are defined for compliance
reasons, but their definition covers activities that happen practically at
other layers; it's a conceptual distionction.

DNS: Domain Name Service. Translates domain names and computer names into IP
addresses for routing. In a Microsoft environment, so many tools are connected
to DNS that it makes sense to use Microsoft's Windows Server DNS service. In a
linux server environment, it makes just as much sense to have a linux service
or the network hardware provide the service.

DHCP: Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol. This allows computers to ask for an
IP address and subnet information, along with a couple other items, whereupon
the router responds with an unused address from an available pool of
addresses. Uses broadcast traffic because by definition a computer not
configured won't have an IP address yet.

NAT: Network Address Translation. Allows non-routable traffic to communicate
with external addresses. Wraps packets from private addresses in the router's
external IP address before sending it to its location. The corresponding
packets returning the correct internal address is defined.

Static Routes are common on hardware which doesn't use a specific protocol. It
involves pointing a specific IP and subnet range to another IP address that is
reachable.
