##VPNs

VPNs are Virtual Private Networks. They can be provided by hardware or
software. They are capable of connecting multiple LANs together in a secure
fashion. This allows each device on a LAN to treat a device on a different LAN
connected by a VPN as being on the same network, effectively.

Implemented in hardware, a VPN a device can connect to each LAN can securely
connect over the internet to other VPN hardware on sister LANs. All traffic
within the LAN is in the open and doesn't require extra processing for any
given device. The VPN hardware has a dedicated processor to encrypt and deal
with messaging to the sister VPN boxes, and makes each LAN available to the
routers to which they are connected.

Implemented in software, some or all of the network traffic is given a layer
of encryption by the general processor of the computer generating the traffic.
The computer itself has to use processing power and memory to handle
encryption and decryption of all VPN traffic..

##Cloud computing

Cloud computing involves offloading the computing to a machine located
elsewhere on the internet. Cloud services can be an effective replacement for
on-prem services.

##Virtualization

A hypervisor is a specialized OS that runs directly on top of the hardware of
a server. It is important that the hardware be capable of virtualization. The
hypervisor allows guest OSs to use that hardware as though it were native.
This hardware sharing provided by this allows for greater utilization across
multiple OSs, and for greater redundancy controls.

Among many of the benefits of a hypervisor is the ability to maintain a
heartbeat replication with another machine, and when one hypervisor is no
longer available, the other machine takes over and maintains availability of
the service.
